welcome to the man of recaps this is the
expanse season four so humanity has just
activated the ring an ancient alien
artifact with hundreds of portals to
distant worlds so christian avasarala
now secretary general of the united
nations of earth sends our hero
james holden to go scope it out he's the
expert on weird alien stuff he's been
front and center for all these
adventures so far
including activating the ring where he
had a trippy alien vision of something
destroying all these worlds so we know
there's dangers out there so our ship
the rasanante is exploring a new alien
world we've got our cowboy pilot alex
the tough guy amos whose friend libo
will shoot you without a second thought
and genius engineer naomi nagata who is
still dating holden being a belter who's
only ever lived in space she's taking
bone density shots so she can go down
onto the planet they're not the first
ones here though a group of belters have
already colonized it turns out this
planet's rich in lithium and they've
been mining it but an earth-based mining
company holds the official mining
charter led by security chief mercury
when they landed here something went
wrong their ship
exploded a bunch of people died and
mercury's pretty sure the belters did it
so as you can imagine things are pretty
tense but james holden is not here to
settle mining disputes he's here to
watch out for crazy alien stuff like
these little
robot bees whoa they make friends with
the earth scientist and the belcher
doctor and when amos picks a fight with
corporate security he makes friends with
murchie's right-hand woman
in fact they start doing it yeah this is
amos's first romance arc and his super
direct no emotion style
is hilarious anyway nearby are some
gigantic ancient alien structures
there's no apparent way in but when
holden touches it it opens because
he's got detective miller in his head
yeah that's not the real miller he's
just called the investigator it's the
protomolecule ancient aliens talking
through them through miller's
personality
in any case it's like hey kid you gotta
move that plant it's clogging up the
works so holden does it and oh
something's activated it's turned on
some crazy digging machine what's its
purpose holden's not waiting to find out
he blows that thing up
not messing around with dangerous alien
stuff this time elsewhere inside the
ring is medina station remember the old
mormon ship
now the flagship of the new official opa
navy in charge here is kamina drummer
working with the old belcher pirate
ashford
remember they were opposed at the end of
last season but they're good friends now
now there's a tenuous peace treaty
between the belt earth and mars the
belters having the station inside the
ring is incredibly important but they'll
only be allowed to keep it if they can
keep the peace a belter pirate has been
picking off ships so they've gotta bring
him in
and it is marco anaros if that name
sounds familiar they've mentioned him
before he's a legendary belter freedom
fighter and in fact naomi nagata's baby
daddy
they're gonna execute him but he's
incredibly charismatic talks himself out
of it with just a fine
hope that doesn't come back to bite him
meanwhile over on mars it's gunnery
sergeant bobby draper though sargent no
more she's been kicked out of the
military after last season officer allah
wants bobby to come work for her but
everyone already thinks she's an earth
spy she's like no thanks now her
nephew's acting shady so she follows him
turns out he's got a meth lab going yeah
he's working for some crime gang aunt
bobby lays the smackdown martian marine
style and tells his white-haired chick
who's his boss hey my nephew's out but
white-haired chick's not the top boss
it's this bald guy who is a cop and long
story short bobby's disgruntled with how
mars is treating her so she joins these
guys and helps him steal decommissioned
military tech no one's gonna miss anyway
now back on new terra which the belters
call illis and has a suspicious ring of
moons around it that's probably not
natural tension between mercury and the
belters has finally turned into outright
violence mercury goes on a killing spree
taking out everyone he thinks blew up
his ship that includes the new doctor
friend so naomi helps her escape turns
out naomi's bone injections aren't
working by the way she's got to go back
into space
by the way mercury's an awful person but
he was 100 right the belchers did blow
up his ship the doctor tried to stop it
but couldn't so she's the one who
actually
blew it blowing it early saved more
lives than if they had waited she's
feeling super bad about it but naomi got
is like yo girl i also used to be an opa
terrorist like you better forgive
yourself so once again it falls to james
holden to try to make peace here he's
like this is not my job but they have a
more pressing problem one of the ancient
alien structures melts down
super tsunami on the way plus the ring
of moon says somehow shut down all
spaceship reactors and any landing pods
they send in get burned up
there's no evacuation their best bet is
to ride it out inside the ancient alien
structure so everyone's climbing in
there
tsunami on the way james holden cuts in
just in time
everyone's safe for now but if supplies
get low things are going to get messy
but there's another new problem there's
a green guck eye infection going around
within a day it turns you blind and
everyone's infected everyone except
james holden that is for mysterious
reasons he's immune furthermore the
ocean washed in these gross green slugs
and they're not just gross they're
covered in deadly nerve toxins so things
are real bad down here everyone's blind
huddled under these slug tarps with
holden the only one who can see things
are bad up in space too because without
their reactors they can't maintain their
orbit they're gonna fall into the planet
the rosanate has more reserve power than
the belter ship so they attach a space
cable to it give it a little dug then
when the rostanate starts running low on
thrusters they use their new railgun to
give them a little boost elsewhere marco
and arose back on the loose launches an
attack on earth yeah throws an empty
spaceship at it they easily defend it
but ava serala is going to bring him in
since the u.n space marines after him oh
it's a fun mission like playing a video
game but oh something goes wrong it was
an ambush they're all dead
this is not good for avasarala it's an
election year and her opponent nancy gao
is basically a younger more likable
version of her and so this mess brings
back
fred johnson yeah one of the big leaders
in the opa the opa leaders have a lot of
things they disagree on but they can all
agree they've gotta bring in marco anara
so the inners are gonna come take their
station so it's old space pirate ashford
who's gonna go take him down for good
meanwhile on mars things are good for
bobby draper running missions with her
crew she briefly gets a hot boyfriend
who brings her waffles but he's gonna go
mine asteroids so they break up anyway a
new job comes in but the pay is
suspiciously good and the intel is
suspiciously vague so bobby thinks it's
a setup bald guy wants to go through
with it though see he's not an evil
crime boss he's a nice guy with a family
he's like look i need this money because
the dream of mars is dead with the space
ring giving access to hundreds of new
habitable planets why would anyone spend
another hundred years terraforming mars
so they take the job but bobby was right
it was a setup and oh bald guy gets shot
furthermore there's a bomb here and oh
it explodes this whole anger bobby and
white hair chick managed to escape but
whoever set him up stole some hardcore
martian stealth tech
they're in way over their heads now back
in the blind deadly alien slug cave
there's a breakthrough when they
discover why holden's immune turns out
it's the cancer meds he's been taking
from when he was radioacted back at the
end of season one luckily they can make
a cure out of that and when you're not
blind the slugs on his big a problem
then finally holden gets another visit
from detective miller but something's
very wrong with him whoa
turns out this is now the real miller
yeah his consciousness was in there and
he broke free from his alien bonds
he's like hey kid i know how to shut
this whole thing down let's go so he
leads hold into the wild gravity
elevator that goes way down into the
belly of the beast there they find a
crazy glowing space hole and miller's
like all right i gotta jump into a
physical body and get through this thing
but just then mercury is up to no good
he sends one of his escape pods to the
belter ship but it's rigged to explode
and this guy manages to warn alex just
in time to stop it but the shrapnel oh
knocks belter doctor up into space
naomi nagata no fear oh going out there
to rescue her then mercury and amos's
girlfriend go after holden but amos is
right behind him
all season the question's been if it
really came to it would these two fight
or work it out but now it's come to it
and she's not backing down so amos
shoots her
cold-blooded she got a shot off too
though and mercury's there as well so
the doctor runs to hold him like hey
amos is in trouble holden's like cool if
a talking robot shows up throw it
through this weird space hole please so
it's the final showdown between merchry
and holden it's the good old-fashioned
duel but
holden wins meanwhile ghost miller did
manage to possess a robot so they're
gonna throw him through the thing but oh
the defense system activates and grabs
him
and this looks bad because now the
entire planet's activating yeah pretty
sure this is the thing that would fire a
laser through the ring
destroying all of humanity but the
doctors dragging robot miller gets him
through the thing and oh the whole
planet shuts down
spaceships have power again so the
rescue mission's easy and the day is
saved amos and mercury both survive but
amos goads mercury into hitting him i
think so he has an excuse to beat him to
death
avasarala loses her election in case you
care about her marriage the election put
a lot of strain on it they're taking
some space just then though bobby draper
reaches out like hey if you're still
hiring personal security i'm in now
because it was
opa terrorist marco anarros who stole
the martian stealth tech and is painting
an asteroid with it luckily ashford
tracked him down and boom
burst in there zero g space pirate style
yeah he's kind of old now but he's still
a baller and gets marco and arose but
wait now he's captured by
philippa narrows yes naomi nagata's son
before they execute him ashford puts his
phone on record and tries to get marco
to monologue his evil plan
he does love monologuing but he doesn't
reveal his target and so ashford is sent
out into space
singing an old sailor shanty on the way
it is tearjerking and so marco anaros
launches the stealth asteroid what is
his target
it is earth yeah the small attack
earlier was just to test their defenses
now he knows how to get past him
and that's how season four comes to an
end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member